---
marp: true
theme:  
_class: default
paginate: false
backgroundColor: #fff
backgroundImage: url('https://marp.app/assets/hero-background.svg')
---

# Thoughts on research proposal

2025-04-16
## Motivation

## Questions

---

# Motivation 

I just read an interesting survey paper by Arthur Lewbel called, *the identification zoo*. 

What is identification in applied paper?

- The concept of identifying something should preceed estimating it. 
- Often, the applied paper (with a structural model) cites another method paper, arguing something is identified, e.g., choice probability, transition probability. by showing that the requirements are satisfied by our structual model.
- Next, the strucural model is parametric. Though the $\Pr(d|x)$ is non-parametrically identified, we can not say that the parameter $\beta$ in $\Pr(d|x)=\frac{\exp(x\beta)}{1+\sum_j \exp(x\beta)}$ is identified. 

---
# Questions

1. What is the relationship between non parametrically identifyiing $\Pr$ and parametrically identifying the parameter in $\Pr$? 
   - Showing parametric identification (identification by functional form) implies that $\Pr$ is identified.
2. It is hard to establish identification argument with moment based method. (see example under extreme based identificatio in the survey paper). But is there a way to do that? Does stacking moments help? 
3. Is the precision of estimates related to the identification of the parameters?


---
# Questions

4. Why do we sometimes add noisy measure of some variables? 
   1. on the type?
   2. on the personality trait?
   3. on the ability?

(See a brief mention of *noisy measure on the unobservables* in section 4.7 from Olivier's paper.)

---

# Side Note

1. Identification up to labeling. (*Up to* means that once you fix the label, then everything is identified. Like *up to location/scale*.)
2. The labeling is arbitrary. We need to assume a monotonic mapping $G(f_{Y_{t+1}|y_t,x_t^*})$? How does joint diagnolization circumvent this?